why do all the holy places of the
British people keep being attacked
literally and metaphorically because
they want to hurt these people they want
to hurt the people who rever them you
might say well why do you want to do
that revenge for some people supremacy
of a different kind for others weakness
among others why would you do that to 3%
of the population you among other things
it's rude it's cruel it's unusual and
why would you do that to a maj
[Music]
majority hello everybody I had the
opportunity today to talk with Douglas
Murray Douglas is the author of the war
on the west the strange death of Europe
and The Madness of crowds among other
books has been a cardinal
voice signaling to everyone the danger
of the culture War trying to assess its
reasons trying to mount a defense
against its most destructive aspects and
trying to call people's attention to the
dangers that
beset Western the Western World and and
freedom in general because freedom in
general is essentially identical to the
Western World for better for worse and
so so an assault on the west is an
assault on everything that isn't
nihilistic catastrophic and
authoritarian in its Essence what did
Douglas and I talk about today we talked
a lot
about the situation in the
UK the recent uprisings of the British
working class the incredible ethnic and
cultural tensions that have been
generated in the wake of an immigration
policy whose
rationale is what would you say
incomprehensible not only
incomprehensible but absent what's the
function of the
untrammeled immigration policies that
characterize Germany and France and the
UK especially given the obvious fact
that they're producing a tremendous
amount of internal stress we talked a
little bit about the more pragmatic
aspects of the problem it's easier to
travel now than it ever was before it's
easier to share information uh and
certainly both of those factors play a
cardinal role but there's also this
strange blindness among the political
Elite a willful blindness or perhaps a
motivated willful blindness to the
catastrophic consequences of these kinds
of indiscriminate policies so Douglas
and I spent a lot of time delving into
that trying to parse it apart assessing
also the
strange Union of the radical leftists
with the Islamic
fundamentalists let's say with regards
to what's happened in Israel and in Gaza
since October 7th so tough
conversation um we
also talked about Douglas's plan to do a
speaking T her for the next couple of
months and he's in a number of American
cities you could go to Live Nation and
type in the name Douglas Murray and find
tickets so I'd also recommend that I
think it's going to go in LA on the 23rd
of September so anyways on with the
analysis
of the strange death of the
West well hello Mr Murray it's good to
see you again it's it's been about a
year since we've done a podcast already
and it's been some time since we've seen
each other we obviously saw each other
when you were on tour with me last
September um I guess first of all I'm
pleased to be able to talk to you and
there's lots to talk about that's for
sure and I guess maybe the first thing
I'd like to find out is well what have
you got planned in the upcoming months
what's on your
plate uh well uh I'm in New York at the
moment and uh in September I'm doing a
tour here in the US a speaking tour
doing six cities uh from LA to New York
uh finishing at the Beacon Theater where
I saw you a while ago and also doing
Miami uh Fort Lauderdale Denver and
maybe some more dates to add but that's
in September and anyone who's interested
can go to the Live Nation website and
you'll find all the details there um
otherwise uh I am uh as ever uh living
out of a suitcase and uh trying to keep
a breast of all the things that are
doing as uh lots of things in our sociey
is falling apart so uh I've spent a lot
of the last year in Israel in the Middle
East covering the conflict there in
Israel Gaza um I was there for almost 6
months after the 7th of October um but
now um things are kicking off in quite a
number of countries as you know so this
speaking to her let's concentrate on
that for a minute too so what's your
goal and your plan what are you offering
people who come to and and what are you
hoping to achieve what are you offering
people who are going to come and listen
well one of the things is that it's a uh
follow on from you know I wrote this
book the war in the West which you and I
discussed when it came out about 18
months ago um and and since then there
have been so many things that have
happened uh not least the 7th of October
and the war that's followed um because
I've covered all of this up close and
got some pretty extraordinary camera
footage of this I wanted to present it
to an audience to be able to show what
I've seen um and what I think of as the
the realities that I think a lot of
people running away from at the moment
um but the realities of what happens
when you know well frankly when violence
breaks out and uh I think it's a great
warning uh to people in America and
elsewhere a great warning of you know
this this stuff can become very real uh
as it as it did in Israel last October
and um anyhow it's there's going to be
some fun to be had along the way my
friend and colleague from the monk
debates in Toronto Natasha housef is
going to be with me on stage to do the
Q&A uh session and interview and uh yes
and there's going to be a lot of lot of
uh never foreseen footage uh from a lot
of crazy
situations so that's it sounds in some
ways like a what a live current affairs
show that's focused specifically on this
issue okay so you said that you're going
to use if I've got it right you're going
to use the occurrences of October 7th
and afterwards as an object lesson right
an object lesson in the consequences
what of the disintegration of a societal
ethos the consequences of what like what
how do you exactly do you tie in what
you were writing about in the war on the
west with what you've seen unfold since
October 7th say in relationship to what
you're going to speak about well one
thing is of course is that
uh October 7th for a lot of people in
Israel was an example of of what happens
when you've been living in a delusion
and have suddenly woken up uh from that
uh I've written a lot in recent years um
as have others about the way in which in
in all the Western democracies we've had
a sort of a lack of seriousness really
about some of the threats that we Face
uh there's a there's a a slumbering
that's gone on for a long time uh which
I and others have warned against um but
I suppose among other things of course
it's not just about that it's about how
people react in the face of of real
threat and real crisis and that's one of
the things that I'm very interested in
at the moment is the way in which a
terrible situation like that throws up
these these two
completely counter forces one is the
force of of real evil and what it's like
to stare into the face of real evil the
other is of course um the face of true
heroism the people who in the face of
atrocity become the person that they
were meant to be
and uh I've seen a lot of that in the
last year and I think there are enormous
lessons to be learned not just of the
negatives but the positives of of of of
the way in which actually when
extraordinary uh events occur
extraordinary people are thrown up and
uh you know we might all see a bit more
of that in the years
ahead so in what Manner do you view what
happened in October 7th on October 7th
and afterwards as a reflection of the
sorts of things that you were warning
about in war on the west how do you see
it as the what another step in The
Logical out unfolding of the processes
that you were assessing well it partly
from that and partly from a previous
books including my one the strange death
of Europe came out in
2017 um a lot of a lot of that was
concerned with saying look you know
there are deep deep challenges that are
going on to what used to call the
liberal Democratic
Society and a deep unwillingness of
people to realize that those challenges
were not
metaphorical since 7th of October we've
seen unbelievable scenes on everywhere
from the Streets of London and major
cities in Europe to the most elite
campuses of Northern America Ivy leak
campuses where students who have the
most privileged existence imaginable
have decided to openly throw their lot
with the terrorists of Hamas you know
this is this has gone this has gone
further a lot faster I think a lot of
people realized but it is something I've
been warning about for a very long time
uh that yes there are there are deep
deep things happening in our society
including the what I've described in the
past as being the thing of people people
at risk of rebelling for the sake of
rebellion and out of boredom
and uh and this is this is a deep thing
in American society in particular you
know the the the call for a great cause
um I one of the student protesters at
Colombia was quoted in New York Magazine
the other month
saying that he was a first generation
lowincome student who was the first
member of his family to go to university
and you think well that sounds good and
then he went on to say and when I got to
Colombia I learned about the history of
protest at Colombia and I decided I knew
he said I knew that as soon as it kicked
off I wanted to be in the middle of
it I mean um so so let me let me ask you
about let let me ask you about that in
in some more detail so this going to be
a complicated question but you put your
finger on something that's crucial and
deep psychological rather than political
uh or even spiritual let's say rather
than
political as you know from touring with
me you know I've been investigating one
of the things I've been investigating is
what is it that makes life
worthwhile I talked to a philosopher
this week um on my podcast who has
written a couple of books on a stream of
analytic philosophy that's been debating
whether or not if you weigh up the
evidence on mass whether
you know existence itself is a net good
or a net evil with whatever implications
you might want to draw from that
argument for its creator right so I'm
not trying to make a theological case
but part of this inquiry is like if if
there was a God is it more logical to
conceive of him as good or as of e as
evil and underneath that is a sense that
the proper axis of evaluation for such a
question is whether there's more pain
and misery in the world or pleasure and
my sense is that that's the fact that
that's how the argument is constituted
is actually an indication of the
pathology of our culture because it's a
Fool's game to map Pleasure and Pain
onto good and evil partly because there
are evil pleasures and there are exactly
morally justifiable pains right so so
whatever the landscape whatever the
moral landscape is it's not reducible to
the hedonic landscape and any axiomatic
assumption it is okay so there's a Cory
to that and one of the corollaries would
be well if we're not built to maximize
pleasure and minimize pain let's say
which is a powerful argument because
emotions are powerful and the positive
and negative emotion systems are are
powerful motivating systems but if we're
not built to maximize pleasure and
minimize pain then what's the Cardinal
call to existence and my sense is that
it's something akin to adventure maybe
it's romantic Adventure which is an even
better formulation all right so then
let's say if that's the case and you and
I talked about this the last time we
talked about the truth as part of the
Call to Adventure the heroic Adventure
yes exactly exactly well so then if
that's the case and the Cardinal
motivation in life is something like the
heroic Call to Adventure then you might
ask yourself well what if that's not
being pursued what beckons as an earth
that's
alternative and like certainly protest
in the name of a ideology the name of a
CA F Adventure it's very tempting it's
very tempting I mean I I would say in
general the the purpose uh uh finding
purpose in a higher cause is of course
one of the most most useful ways uh to
find a meaning in your life beyond the
maximization of pleasure unfortunately
uh the the rebellious
the rebellious attitude for the sake of
rebellion becomes extremely appealing uh
another of the students at Colombia s to
hark on about it but it does show a a
rot somewhere you know at Elite
institutions one of the other students
at Colombia said uh that started the
year out as a a protester in October uh
against the climate emergency the
climate crisis and you know within a
month uh it was Hamas so one of the
things I noticed I suppose it was in
about 2014 which was approximately when
I was starting to detect that something
had gone seriously wrong with the
universities let's say one of the things
I did recognize amongst my colleagues
was this axiomatic presumption that part
of what the universities were there for
was to teach young people how to be
moral by protesting that that that Pro
that that protest itself had become a
standin for Morality and so you know you
can feel sort you can feel some sympathy
for that kid that you were describing I
mean he's gone off to an elite
institution hoping to be taught how to
live a good life in the classic sense by
the world's most profound experts and
what he found when he got there was that
since the 1960s the best thing that the
universities have to offer to their
students is the
false the false reputation the false
claim to morality that can be had and
the excitement that can be had by
engaging in a protest and yes the the
life of an activist is the ideal life um
and the life that's rewarded and the
life that is seen to be virtuous I mean
it's all of that and by the way I one of
the other things that that has struck me
very much in recent times has been um
the fact that of course a lot a lot of
the problems that we see emerging in in
our Societies in the west come about not
just from that boredom but of course the
fact that when the when the financial uh
uh Pi goes
out um and and stops being able to lift
people up a lot of other stuff gets
revealed um um we see this in the UK at
the moment it's not by any means the
only explanation for the riots that have
been going on but if you look at all of
the northern towns in which the riots
have been going on the material uh
well-being of the population has
declined in the last 30 years since the
last set of
riots and you know you sort of think
well if you if you if if the society
isn't working for you
financially and joblessness has actually
gone
up and on top of that you have
challenges to your
identity well of course there's a
there's a there's a Cause right there
and not an ignorable one if it's if it's
about saying you know I want to I want
to defend my culture and all that
ignoble once somebody thinks that the
way best way of doing that is to pick up
a brick and throat at a policeman or a
place of worship yeah well it's no
simple matter to distinguish the genuine
protests from the false protests that's
for sure and so so let me ask you one
more question about your tour and your
talk and then maybe we'll turn our
attention to the situation in the UK
okay so you're planning on showing your
audience is footage from your Journeys
through the Middle East for the last 6
months so I guess I'm curious about well
you know you didn't step into the
conflict in the Middle East as a naive
Observer either of people or of
societies but my suspicions are that
you've seen a lot more in the last 6
months than you ever really wanted to
see and so I'm curious about what you've
seen and what you've concluded from that
and how it's altered or extended your
Viewpoint or challenged it for that
matter like you've been poking your nose
into very dangerous places and so what's
been the consequence for you and what is
it that you're hoping to shed a light on
with the imagery in particular let's say
what are you hoping to shed a light on
for the people who are going to come and
hear you talk well there's quite a lot
of things I mean the I've covered a lot
of conflicts before including in the
Middle East uh
and a lot of what been happening is
sadly familiar territory to me there are
there are um though as you and I have
discussed before there's there's there's
a reason why um hell is a pit that's
endless and uh when it comes to violence
and the ability to to commit acts of
evil it seems to me that I mean that
that axom that the pit is just endless
has was really been shown in the last
year um um I've been uh I've been in
Israel and Gaza most of the time since
the 7th and yes I mean of course like
anyone reporting from the front line
seen lots of things that I'd rather not
have seen but I mean my my belief is
that there's a very important role in
society for people who do that and come
back and tell everyone else what it's
like not least of course to warn people
I mean no there's lots of things that
you know I've seen as a reporter And the
reporter from war zones which I I know I
would not want other people to see I
know I didn't want to see myself
but in order for other people not to see
that you have to know where people can
go and um you know I like one of the
things that has struck me a lot in the
the last year has been that the and I've
made this comment a couple times in
pieces and and elsewhere that the the
that the terrorists of the sth in
particular were were deeply gleeful
whilst carrying out acts of unbelievable
barbarism and that's something that
that's something I'm I've been thinking
about a lot because to be to be doing
something you think is is right but but
is evil is one thing to be doing
something that is evil and and being
joyful about it is um and and for and
for people around you to celebrate it
and then at several degrees of remove uh
that people who think they've got the
same cause as you would excuse it or you
know say uh well context or you know M
much like all sorts of things like that
that are just alarming and and I you
know I've often thought actually in
recent months of there was a late uh
historian a writer called Gita sereni
who died about 20 years ago made a great
impact on me when I was growing up She
Wrote among other things a biography of
the child killer Mary Bell and also the
biographies of stangle the Comm the camp
commant trinka who She interviewed and
also of Albert Shar I remember reading
an interview with G sereni towards the
end of her life and she she was not a
religious person but she said having
spent a lot of her life considering evil
and staring at evil and writing about
evil she said it's it feels like a force
that
descends it just it just manifests and
there's no other explanation for it it's
not it isn't just about some problem in
the developmental process or simply a
matter of Education or opportunity is it
on top of all those problems that do
exist sometimes there is an incarnation
of evil in the
world are you tired of feeling sluggish
rund down or just not your best self
take control of your health and vitality
today with balance of nature with
balance of nature there's never been a
more convenient dietary supplement to
ensure you get a wide variety of fruits
and vegetables every day balance of
nature takes fruits and vegetables they
freeze dry them turn them into a powder
and then they put them into a capsule
the capsules are completely void of
additives fillers extracts synthetics
pesticides or added sugar the only thing
in balance of nature fruit and veggie
capsules are fruits and veggies right
now you can order with promo code Jordan
to get 35% off your first order plus get
a free bottle of fiber and spice
experience balance of nature for
yourself today go to balance of
nature.com and use promo code Jordan for
35% off your first order as a preferred
customer plus get a free bottle of fiber
and Spice that's balance of nature.com
promo code Jordan for 35% off your first
preferred order plus a free bottle of
fiber and
spice well in one way of thinking about
that I think even technically is that
because I've been thinking about this a
lot in relationship to these new large
language models you know
and there's a statistical probability
that any given concept will be
associated with any other given concept
and if you're mapping is technologically
advanced enough you can calculate those
statistical relationships and that's
what the large language models do and
then you can start to
see you can start to see you can start
to map mathematically what the
psychoanalysts called
complexes and complexes are systems of
ideas that
occur in each other's proximity and
there's a core to them and one of the
ways of Imagining the theological
represent entations of of evil the
legions of devils let's say that are
behind the the generation of the
bottomless pit of Hell is that they are
representations of complex of ideas that
hang together an I think you put your
finger on the core of it actually the
core of it isn't evil the core of it is
gleeful
evil right so it's not merely the evil
and it's the it's it's rejoicing in evil
yeah well and that that's it's that is
that is actually the core of of sadism
from a psychopathological perspective
right it's not it's positive Delight
it's quite it's it's it's a
multi-dimensional characterization it's
positive Delight in the unnecessary
suffering of others right and the
unnecessary element is also Cardinal
because that plays up the element that's
parody you know so in owitz for example
one of the games the guards used to play
was to have the the prisoners who got
off the train cars shivering and Frozen
and accompanied by their dead relatives
who you know died of his fixation or or
froze to death in the cattle cars they'd
arrive at the camps and then they'd be
compelled to carry wet socks of salt
from one side of the camp which was the
size of a town to the other and then
back and so it's a parody of work right
and it's a it's a demonstration to the
person thems that not only are they
suffering for every for all the reasons
that they're in the camps and by the
fact of the burden that they're carrying
but the utter counterproductive
pointlessness of the painful labor is
also emphasized and insisted upon and
and then Delight taken in that and that
is a very dark thing to observe yes I
mean there's one of the I was in the uh
one of the maximum security prisons in
Israel early this year and saw the Hamas
terrorists from the seventh who had been
captured alive
one of them was somebody who I I
recognized from uh one of the atrocity
videos uh who had thrown there were two
young boys about 10 12 they with their
father they went into the safe room when
the bombs started falling and hamaz
terrorists came and they saw them go and
they threw a grenade and the father
threw himself on the grenade and was
killed in front of his sons and then you
know one of them lost an ear and the
other one lost an eye and they were
staggering around the main room of their
house house weeping and wailing in the
most uh Unforgettable awful awful way
and one of the terrorists came in and
who' just killed their father in front
of them came in and opened the fridge
and helped himself to the food and the
youngest of the boys in to in total
trauma and you know said that's my
mother's
food and the terrorists turned him and
said where's your mother I want her
too How could a how how could anyone do
that you uh you put your finger on it
well you know that idea of the dissent
it's
like um one of the things that God
accuses Cain of when he becomes bitter
is opening the door to evil he said his
suffering wasn't merely a consequence of
his failure in life it was a consequence
of his failure tempting to tempting him
to open the door to evil and so if you
think about it in terms of these
complexes of assoc iated ideas is
they're ideas that if you let in they
bring a host of other ideas with them
and a host is exactly the right phrase
and you might be tempted in a moment of
weakness to invite something in that you
think that you can control or that you
could Bend to your own purposes but the
problem is is that you're inviting in a
complex that has been around forever and
that once lodged inside you might prove
uh What uh
that whatever defenses that you might
think you have there to mount are
trivial in comparison to the power of
what you've invited in and that is I I
think you can think of that technically
and it is a terrible thing and it is the
kind of things that that are warned
against at the theological level
although that's a very complicated thing
to to
untangle and
so all right so let's let's turn from
that a bit so that's the sort of thing
that you're going to explain as you're
communicating with your audience and
what you're hoping to demonstrate to
people is
that is The Logical conclusion of the
sorts of games for example that are
being played on the University campuses
for sure for sure yeah yeah well then of
course the problem with that is at least
to some degree is
that that complex of ideas that takes
possession of people in the
circumstances that you're describing has
that end in mind
oh yeah absolutely yeah of course of
course all right all right well let's
turn our attention to the to the
situation in the UK if that's the case I
mean so let's start with something
contentious I suppose Tammy and I went
out on a limb recently and interviewed
Tommy Robinson I saw I've been I've been
watching Tommy for a long time um and
he's struck me as particularly
interesting well for two reasons is the
first reason I suppose is because he is
a genuine workingclass guy and for
better or worse and second I haven't
seen anyone anywhere who's been more
unwavering in his commitment to reveal
the atrocities of the grooming gangs in
the UK which
are act what organized patterns of
activity that are very persuasive that
are so terrible that it's almost
impossible to talk about them without
sounding like a conspiracy theorist so
now there's no doubt that there are many
things that you could accuse Tommy
Robinson of and many things many of
those he would admit to but to me and
also to my
wife fair enough um but the fact that
he's pointed his finger at something
that's seriously needs to be attended to
and has paid a major price for it is
also not ignorable it's like do we
expect someone who's brave enough to do
that to also be perfect in every regard
that's asking a bit much given that
there's many people who in principle
have moral characters much more un
unsullied than Tommy Robinson who are
cing and silence constantly in the face
of this absolute
brutal and so well so we interviewed him
and what did I think of Tommy he's very
articulate he can certainly make a case
for himself
um and then I thought it was up to the
audience to listen and to make their own
judgment now that was before the recent
March that Robinson and his crew
organized in London which in my
estimation I'm interested in your
perspective went as peacefully and well
as the protests in Ottawa which it was
modeled after and so I thought his crew
handled that extraordinarily well now in
the aftermath of those protests of
course all sorts of chaotic hell has
broken loose and um well why don't you
are much closer to such things than me I
mean being a denisen of that country I'm
looking from outside trying to make
sense out of it but my sense at the
moment is that the UK is somewhat of a
Tinder Box and so yes and I wish I wish
it hadn't been so
predictable
um I um again I I wrote about this so
many years uh warned about it uh the
strange death of Europe was largely my
last ditch attempt to warn my own
Society of birth and other Western
countries not to go down the path that
they were precisely going
down and as the former government
Minister said in the times a couple of
days ago the thing about my my
prediction on that was that I made them
not with any Glee but in a spirit of
deep lamentation about what was about to
happen to my society and as I see it
there um Tommy Robinson's a very ex
interesting example of of of of this
whole thing but let me just explain
where how I see it the uh this whole
configuration of recent days uh started
when a 17-year-old went into a tor Swift
dance class A couple weeks ago now and
uh started hacking at young girls with a
knife killed three girls 9y olds
thereabouts wounded many others and the
news of that came out and a very typical
modern British modern European modern
Western thing happened which was that in
the aftermath people started to suspect
something was being kept from them now
wiser heads would wait but not
everyone's a wise head after
nine-year-old girls are bludgeon to
death um stabbed to death so false
information went out online saying that
the attack was a um had arrived on one
of the many boats of illegal migrants
that come across the English Channel
every every week uh that was untrue uh
in fact he was the son of um immigrants
from Rwanda but people started to sense
that there was a cover up of some kind
or at least the news was being managed
the police in Britain seemed always to
think they're being very clever at this
and it's always seemed to me that they
exacerbate every problem they put their
their mind to um they insisted that the
first the young man was originally from
Cardiff uh capital of Wales and people
just sense there something as something
with their holding from us sure enough
um anyway the point is is very uh
unpleasant ugly and again evil forces
can get Unleashed at such a Time the
spirit of
Revenge and some uh protests started
peacefully at first then some
violent a mosque was targeted nearby and
then violence started to spread out to
other towns then Muslim communities
started to arm up in some cases
literally people turning up uh with
knives to defend their areas um this is
all and maybe it'll die down by the time
this podcast has gone out or maybe it'll
get a lot worse but the one thing you
can say with absolute certainty is it's
not going to go away because all of this
is the consequence of what I call the
problem of primary and secondary
problems the primary problem in the UK
as in Europe in recent years has been
the total unwillingness of the political
and other classes in the UK to address
deep deep concerns of the public and
when people said in recent days how
could anyone leap to such a conclusion
that the attacker would be and go
because everyone's seen this
before you know people don't actually
forget very fast the media class may but
they don't forget very fast that it's
only seven years ago that uh the son of
Libyan migrants to the UK went and
detonated a suicide bomb at an Ariana
Grande con concert in Manchester they
don't forget fast that three people who
had no right to be in the UK including
one whose Asylum claim had been rejected
but who was nowhere near being deported
went across London Bridge in 2017
hacking at the throats of passers by and
shouting Alo Akbar they don't forget
that they notice it but the uh the
British government and others have had
this very very clear policy that they
don't really know what to do to tackle
that they don't know what to do really
to tackle The Grooming gangs issue there
was another set of prosecutions the
other day and another uh case is coming
to court in the in the coming weeks you
could say well they clearly do they're
using the law but the but a lot of the
public say well not fast enough and not
really there's an awful lot of rapists
still walking around with girls who are
their victims in the same
towns and the government knows that the
public ascribed this to the government's
immigration policies its integration
policies but the governments can't take
responsibility for that because they've
made that mistake now they've they they
the the conservative government that
just left power that said that they
would bring migration down to the tens
of thousands a year left office with net
Migra ation of legal migration at almost
34 of a million a year which is by the
way completely unsustainable but they
just keep doing it anyway the
interesting thing that Tommy Robinson
speaks to and has always spoken to is um
what are you allowed to do about this or
say about this now if if you're
me for the time being um you're allowed
to write about it sometimes you're
allowed to speak about it sometimes
you're allowed to raise alarms sometimes
you're allowed to speak your mind
somewhat but if you're a Tommy Robinson
character if you grow up in Luton and
you haven't had many advantages in life
and you've had quite a lot of
disadvantages and you're white and
working class what are you allowed to do
about this what are you allowed to say
about any of this and the government for
decades now has had the attitude you're
not allowed to do anything you're not
allowed to say anything you can't do
anything because if you do we'll call
you a racist and we call you far right
and this has all gone on for a very long
time well it's an it's an effective
epithet you know like when I first came
across your work and I've seen this
reaction in the depths of my soul to
many people when I first came across
your work which is quite a long time ago
now you know know I was leery of it and
I think the reason for that is that it's
something like this it's that there are
a lot of people in the world and I'm not
going to be able to meet all of them or
read all of them or have anything to do
with all of them and now and then some
of them get tarred with some epithet
well the cost to me of accepting that
tarring is very low on average because
if I don't pay attention to some person
there's a whole bunch of other people I
could pay attention to so it's not like
the pool of people to attend to
shrinks right so so and and that epithet
of far right is a very effective brand
of taring and even it it's even
effective among people who are very
skeptical of such things so I'll give
you an example so I talked to Michael
shellenberger after he released the W
paath files when he was investigating
the absolute
pathological corruption and Craven
cowardice of the of the Cadre who
presented what purport to be the
standard guidelines for enlightened care
to the American Medical Association the
American Psychiatric association the
American Psychological Association and
he was appalled at their lack of
competence and their ideological
possession it was another bottomless pit
and I and I asked him how he became
aware of this and he said well one way
was that he had listened to Abigail
shrier and I talk about it I guess it
was two years ago when Abigail first put
out her book irreversible damage it was
the first podcast I did after I'd been
so ill and I was terrified to do it
because it was such a Hot Topic and you
know shellenberger himself said he
listened to that podcast but he really
couldn't believe
it you know and that's another example
of the effectiveness of that tar yes
it's it's so easy to demolish someone's
reputation and it's especially easy to
demolish a reputation for people who do
not have as it were a backlog of
published work yeah I mean it's it's
relatively easy but to to weigh up
someone's views and make an estimation
of them if they have seven books to
their name as I do or you know thousands
and thousands of articles but it can't
be the case that only book authors are
allowed to say anything about the
disintegration of their
societies it's it's it's not like it
should only be left to people who write
newspaper articles yeah well God no not
that like maybe maybe least of all and
but but but but then you go to this
question which as you know has come up
in Canada in recent years and is very
live now in Britain which is what again
what are people allowed to do now
obviously by the way and I'm aware as
you always are of the deep desire of bad
Faith actors to seize anything I say in
this discussion and misrepresented so
let me do a very boring piece of throat
clearing if I may the idea that people's
response to any problems in their
society should be to go out and commit
acts of violence is obviously insane and
wrong what we're seeing on the streets
of the British cities though raises this
question as I say of if the public keep
saying something to the politicians and
the politicians keep not just ignoring
them but insulting them what are they
allowed to do these people these are
populations that have have every single
election like the rest of the British
people for 20 years they have voted for
Less immigration I've been told that
they'd get it and instead it's just gone
up the these are they've lived through
an economy since
2008 where of the jobs created by the
British government in the last since
2008 um so in the last what we're
talking 16 years of the jobs created
since 2008 74% have gone to people who
were not born in
Britain so just just people think about
this for a
second the government refuses to do what
the public keep on asking for and what
the government keeps on saying it'll do
it is seen to be I think accurately
extremely LAX on policing certain social
cohesion
issues it's extremely eager to crack
down on anyone of a Tommy Robinson
type and what material benefits have
come about in the society in the last 16
years have largely gone to people who
were not born in the
country what I I I repeat what what is
what is permissible in this situation to
do and I would say peaceful protesting
would be one thing or speaking up or you
know whatever you like to do except that
every time even there is a peaceful
protest the peaceful protesters are
defamed as far right uh neo-nazis I mean
there definitely will have been and have
been in last in recent days some
extremely ugly people who've come out of
The Woodshed who I'm sure do include
there's like one guy everyone's obsessed
with who has a swastika tattoo on his
back um is that guy representative of
all the people who are angry in the wake
of the uh the slaughter in Southport I
would have thought not and in any other
situation every public official
political official opinion writer and
policeman would be very wary of trying
to Tar everyone with that
brush uh I mean for instance the the the
the police and authorities even when
uh you have discovery of of of an Imam
in a mosque preaching
violence the V everyone is incredibly
careful lawyers at all the newspapers
and everyone else to make sure that it
isn't implied that everyone who attends
that mosque is somehow in favor of this
in fact woe beti you if you did do that
you have to say it's this one person and
no one else is
responsible but somehow the the actual
desire to Tar anyone
who has as I say not got a voice and is
wanting to make their voice heard as you
know as as a violent far-right Neo-Nazi
seems to me to be a big error by Kia
starma and others
because you know if you can't say we
recognize your deep deep concerns about
some things that have happened
including Mass
stabbings terrorism and much more we
understand your deep deep concerns and
we are going to try to get onto this and
on top of this but there is no excuse to
turn out on the streets and be violent
against your Muslim brothers and sisters
and neighbors or anyone else if they
can't say that they just cannot say it
they just have to go to the secondary
thing what kills me about this is it's
exactly what I said for years if you
don't deal with a primary problem you
get secondary problems and if you just
focus on the secondary problem you will
never not you'll not only not solve the
primary problem you will make it worse
exactly what we're
seeing the less your business spends on
operations on multiple systems and on
delivering your product or service the
more money you keep but with higher
expenses on materials employees
distribution and borrowing everything
costs more to reduce costs and headaches
smart businesses are graduating to net
Suite by Oracle netsuite is the number
one Cloud Financial system bringing
accounting financial management
inventory and HR into one platform and
one source of Truth with Nets Suite you
can reduce it costs cut the cost of
maintaining multiple systems and improve
efficiency by bringing all your major
business processes into one platform and
slashing manual tasks and errors over
37,000 companies have already made the
move why haven't you by popular demand
netsuite has extended its one-of-kind
flexible financing program for a few
more weeks head to netsuite.com jbp
that's netsuite.com
jbp nets.com
jbp okay so a couple of I got a couple
of questions out of that and well one
observation the first observation is
that the epet far right is rapidly
losing its
utility now when I hear someone now
described as farri I think yeah
maybe probably not but maybe and now and
I should also
point out that I actually it's not like
I'm unaware of the existence of Bad
actors I don't even know if right and
left are the right dimensions of
evaluation anymore and I suspect not but
for for now we'll stick with that I mean
uh ever since I came out in defense of
the defensive response of Israel to the
October 7th Massacre I've had no
shortage of farri trolls on my case and
I know what they're like of studying
historically and of course that happened
to me when I partnered with the daily
wire to begin with because its headman
in some ways at least in the public eye
was Ben Shapiro and so I I'm perfectly
aware of what the farri uh agitators
look like and they're a remarkably
despicable Bunch so we we'll get that
out of the way to begin with um the idea
that they're in the same camp for
example as
um as the workingclass protesters that
you're describing in the UK is absurd
because first of all what the UK what
the workingclass protesters are doing
isn't fundamentally political it's it's
fundamentally based in something
approximating frustration okay so so
okay so having said that then I've got
two I've got a
question so with regards to the drivers
of immigration you know you say the
politicians campaign at least on the
conservative side at least some of the
time with the claim that they're going
to get a handle on this but they don't
in fact quite the opposite they seem to
facilitate it and so then is that
because it's actually beyond their
control or is it because here's a
psychological reason it's like for
decades our culture has insisted on
something approximating a position of
moral relativism there's no way of
drawing hierarchical distinctions
between the value claims that different
cultures present we can't admit for a
moment that there might be some reason
to be um lery let's say of an immigrant
class that would be associated with the
kind of education that the Madres are
producing for all sorts of ideological
reasons we can't make any allowance for
the idea that some immigrants might be
more difficult to integrate into our
culture than others and that is a thorny
problem don't get me wrong but now so we
open the flight Gates let's say and we
find out that there are people who don't
have democracies in their own country
because they don't have the culture for
it let's say or the desire for it and
they bring those attitudes along with
them surprise surprise because they
weren't just Freedom loving oppressed
people striving to be free who are now
thrilled to death to be in a democratic
country but people who are pretty damn
prone to bring all of the problems that
they had in their own country along with
them now and we're not supposed to say
that now
my sense is the working class doesn't
get to have their say because if they
had their say everyone who's modern and
liberal and tolerant in that
pathological manner that accepts
everything without distinction would
have to do some serious digging into the
underst structure of their own belief
systems and think oh well and then that
touches on something else now so here's
a weird segue uh or or what would you
say a idea that popped into my head an
association Richard Dawkins announced
himself as a cultural Christian so then
one of the things that makes that makes
me ask is something like well what is it
that the West has right that the enemies
of the West have wrong that's
percolating at the bottom of all of this
mess that's
driving what that's driving the
relativistic arguments of the
pro-immigration
types but that's also fulminating this
terrible clash of cultures that we
unsurprisingly see emerging on our
streets it's like so so the first the
question first is like what the hell's
driving the massive immigration into the
West because we see it in
Canada maybe worse than anywhere else at
the moment or more at a more rapid rate
than anywhere else Canada is so damn
peaceful it's hard to destabilize it but
we're working hard on that so so what's
driving this m is it the insistence is
it this ideological insistence it's a
lot of things one is as I've warned
about for a long time one is something
that isn't inevitable but is hard to
resist which is a simple ease of
movement in the 21st century the
relative cheapness of travel compared to
any previous century and the knowledge
through the devices we have in our
pockets around the globe I mean what
three bit three billion people are on
WhatsApp Alone um the ability of people
anywhere in the world to discover the
life of anyone else in the world easily
uh and add to that the fact that most
countries in the world are not even
remotely approximating either the safety
or the wealth uh available in 21st
century Canada for instance or
Britain and you and it's inevitable that
a lot of people will want that now as
I've said for years just because they
may want wanted does not mean that
Western liberal democracies can remotely
be the place where everybody who wants a
better life can or should go it's simply
impossible and you just crunch the
numbers on people in subsaharan Africa
who want to move into Europe for
instance and if that happened if the
third of subsaharan Africa who who want
to move moved Europe were totally
unrecognizable now the the the the the
second thing that comes from that is
that it is extremely difficult for
politicians to maintain their borders
and I think this is highly regrettable
because I think the only way in which
among other things you can have an
actual Asylum system where you actually
take in those unusual
cases uh where Asylum should be uh
needed just disappear once you have
illegal migration every day coming in on
boats or it's in the case of America
millions of people walking acoss Ross
the southern Border in the last four
years and add to that the fact that as
has been as was famous he said in 1968
by somebody uh it's the easiest thing to
put off any difficult decision you have
to make today and leave it for your
successors to address all the time
making it harder for your successes but
I said this to a European politician
some years ago when they said that they
were going to deport the million
illegals that were in their country I
said how are you going to do it because
you and I know that day one if you
rounded up everyone who is legally in
the country put them on what buses
trains boats the first woman or child
crying would be on the front page of
every newspaper the next morning and by
day two you would have to stop because
of public pressure um that that's just
it seems to be a reality for the time
being by the way until such an time
emerges and it could where where the
society says we don't give a damn
anymore we don't give a damn that may
that may well happen but until that does
happen you know countries are
absolutely incapable politicians are
incapable of answering this question
then you have then you have a follow on
one which addresses what you mentioned
about Richard Dawkins among other things
which
is um America it's not quite true to say
that America was a society based on an
idea but it's a nice idea um America was
based on an idea but the idea came about
because of the people who founded the
Republic the United States of America
and if they had Englishmen right if they
had have been from somewhere else even a
different denomination the United States
would be very different however as far
as States founded on an idea goes
America is probably the
most the nearest to that European
nations Britain are not based on an idea
they were not based on an idea now that
isn't to say that they don't have very
distinct culture and my word the
different cultures across Europe are so
different that everyone jokes about
their neighbors and regards their
neighbor and the neighboring European
country being wildly different from them
to an outsider it seems Preposterous
that the swedes and the Norwegians would
have distinctions between them but they
do but but I say this to say that uh EUR
Europe and Britain was made up of ethnic
identities and those ethnic identities
had ideas of course but even in Britain
you have the Welsh you have the Scots
you have the English Northern Irish the
Irish um how do you integrate into
that how do you do
it um does anyone know and the answer is
no have some people I'd say
Yes um have a
majority it doesn't look that way to me
um and and so so this is this is this is
just a bomb underneath the society's in
Europe in
particular it's it's it's it has been
about ethnicity we don't like things
about being about ethnicity so we say
it's about an
idea but all my adult life this idea has
been so hard for anyone to pin down that
they've just failed it it time and time
again I'm old enough to remember when
Gordon Brown was prime minister and I
contributed to a book that he edited
about being British what britishness was
that was 20 years ago and Britain is no
closer to defining that today than it
was 20 years ago uh people say things
like britishness is about queuing or
fair play and that is so completely
inadequate to the task at hand but the
other one that can come along with this
and this is one of the ones that white
working class communities in the UK
deeply resent in particular is the you
don't have a culture
which is one of the other nice which
well it's one of the nice things that
race baers of all shapes have been doing
for years at these people you don't have
a culture it's what I read about in the
war in the west the jabbing majority
populations and if you do have a culture
it's not a good one or it's a
rapaciously evil one or it's one that's
only to be described through the lens of
colonialism or slavy or racism or
institutional racism or patriarchy or
whatever and they've just done this for
years there has been what I showed in my
last book to be this for instance why do
all the holy places of the British
people keep being attacked literally and
metaphorically why does Winston
Churchill the great hero of the British
Nation keep on being attacked by people
because they want to hurt these people
they want to hurt the people who rever
them they literally want to strip their
gods from them they want to defile the
holy places of the culture you might say
well why do you want to do
that revenge for some people supremacy
of a different kind for others weakness
among others false Adventure cowardice
going along with the tenor of the times
however bad that direction of travel
happens to be but I said recently before
these riots happened I said you know it
would would be and I might have said
this to you in private before Jordan but
I say it would be Madness to if I don't
know if people from the Indian
subcontinent made up 3% of your
population it would be Madness to try to
demoralize that population or to try to
find ways to just say that they were
nothing and never had been anything and
it was sort of best if they just tried
to Sidle through their lives without
harming anyone why would you do that to
3% of the population you among other
things it's rude it's cruel it's unusual
and that 3% of the population is a
significant amount of the population you
don't want to demoralize 3% of the
population
okay why would you do that to a
majority who is so insane that they want
to do this to majority
populations and the answer seems to be
well we're finding out we are finding
out well okay let's let's delve into
that on the idial front I mean I would
say who would want to do that well my
sense is that it's this metastasization
of Marxism it's the spirit that
metastasized Marxism that's bringing
this about and consciously and so you
have you have the people that hold the
center the majority of people who
approximate some implicit ideal however
poorly and then you have people who are
perhaps unable to do that or who are
unwilling to do it or who are even
opposed to it and they occupy the margin
and there's many of them they're a
plethora and the
postmodernists especially the modern
queer theorists let's say want to bring
that margin into the center by whatever
means necessary now I think there's a
profound
philosophical misunderstanding that
accompanies that desire although if the
underlying desire at the base is just
the desire for chaos which is certainly
possible then it's not a mistake it's
not a bug it's a feature but you know we
we tend to believe in the west that an
idea has its opposite and that progress
might be obtained by watching The War of
an of a thesis and its antithesis but
that's not how things work you have a
thesis and you have a plethora of
antithesis in fact an infinite plethora
and so if you try to Center the marginal
all that happens is you demolish the
entire structure and one of the ideas
that I've been working on recently
conceptually is that imagine that now
you're motivated to Center the marginal
at all cost and you presume to begin
with because you're naive or corrupt
that those marginal are a community and
they're a community with something in
common apart from their marginalization
well that's C certainly the claim of the
alphabet mob for example we're all a
community it's like yeah I don't think
so doesn't look like it looks to me like
you're a plurality United by your what
would you say your resentment okay and
narciss and narcissism and narcissism
okay so then but but here's the the
subtle part of the argument let's say
and I think this is true it looks to me
that if
you demolish the center by centering the
marginal you destroy the marginal first
not the center because the thing is well
the thing is Douglas the center is
protected you know let me give you an
example let me give you an example
because I think this is
relevant so since the 1960s since the
early
1960s under the guise of the sexual
Revolution there's been an allout
assault let's say against the structure
of
marriage and so and the consequence of
that is that many people aren't
married but none of those people are
wealthy and educated because the wealthy
and educated are just as married as they
were in the early 60s the people who
aren't married are the economically
marginalized let's say the people who
are in trouble and so that freedom that
came from the removal of the patriarchal
ideal which which is a burdensome thing
to bear and also a judgmental entity
let's say you know single mothers aren't
to be tolerated that finger wagging sort
of morality it's like fair enough okay
now we bring the marginal to the center
who dies first the center no the
marginal yes well another example of
that which is you see that in um I don't
go on the tangent but you see that in
the in the drug normalization which is
the the the elite classes who almost
always push for further liberalization
in laws are actually the people who if
they do dabble in that themselves are
most likely to be able to be saved after
all there's a reason that their job will
probably support them if they want to go
into rehab and there's they will be able
to pay maybe even their office will pay
maybe their firm will pay not so for the
people lying on the streets of this city
with absolutely no safety net who
have not benefited from that
liberalization process to say the least
but it's the same thing absolutely the
people you bring in you bring in the
most marginal case and then yes in the
end the marginalized become the people
who suffer the most and by by the way I
mean we've just lived through this
bizarre um I know sort of social
stampede on the Paris Olympics thing but
what you said what you said was just
resonating with me because I say why is
it now so completely predictable that an
Olympic Games will have to open with a
sort of balls out bearded drag queen
being the center of attention and an a
very obese
transperson should be the kind of like
the main figure of worship in this
bizarre modern cult
Theology and uh and I know you notice
this I noticed this the truth is
everybody notices this it's absurd it's
a complete it's it's a kind of
replacement theology as far as I can see
and one that hasn't been thought through
at all well and doesn't work and is
hideous and ugly and is not encourage
people to Aspire to anything beautiful
or true yeah well that's the dread
abomination of desolation right that the
theologians warned about when it's put
in the highest place then it's time to
head for the hills and what does that
mean it means something like Well when
the social order is so inverted that the
most monstrous is elevated to the
highest place then that's a sign that
like all that chaos is about to return
and that seems to me to be highly
probable well we can see it and everyone
can feel it absolutely everyone can feel
it in one form or another you that you
can and to it's very terrifying to see
it start to emerge in such a dramatic
form in the UK you know and it is
something for as a Canadian it's really
something to go to Europe and hear the
elite
types Express doubt about whether or not
they have a culture you know I heard
people in in the Netherlands say that to
me uh I met a group of you know very
well-placed Comedians and artists and
writers and and and and they that most
of them were conservative people and
they expressed doubts about the even the
existence of their own culture you know
and I come from the Hinterlands of
Northern Canada and I go to a place like
Amsterdam I'm just just makes my bloody
jaw drop and it's the same whenever I
visit the UK it's like you people don't
think you have a culture it's like well
who has pretensions to a culture then
like if if Europe doesn't have a culture
then no one has a culture I mean Europe
has a culture that's so miraculous that
people make pilgrimages there in the
tens of millions just to see its
remnants yes so it's like what the hell
is this claim it's it's it's it's um the
the the Nic way to interpret what has
been attempted in that uh in that regard
is what it's nicer to incomers if we do
ourselves down a bit because otherwise
it's
boastful
and maybe that is the Instinct of some
people it's been a stupid thing to try
to progress that from an instinct into
an actual
policy and uh to you know to fall back
on the sort of mant of you know
everyone's a migrant for instance I mean
this is one of the ones that has just
been endlessly forced on people and
again sorry to keep referring to it but
as I said in the strange death of Europe
people in Europe Europeans British
people others do notice that if they
moved to China or India they would not
become Chinese or Indian they do notice
that and they do notice that if they had
children in that country their children
would not be regarded as Indian or
Chinese either and that's just to pick
out two countries that happen to be the
largest ones but in that case a lot of
people
think how come anyone can move here and
immediately become us and the answer is
that's not clear at all it doesn't seem
obvious at all at the same time of
course nobody wants to say nobody can
become like us because that's
too judgmental and too too negative a
thought too pessimistic a thought and so
what happens is just a set of stupid and
banale
lies diversity is our strength that's
another one diversity is our strength is
possibly the main Mantra of British and
European societies now and actually
again as mantras go is false diversity
does bring some strengths and it also
brings some weaknesses diversity can
bring a range of ideas and it can bring
ideas so terrible that they could
destroy the society it wasn't great that
that Hari Ali Ali Hari Ali's parents
moved from Somalia to the UK got Asylum
and their son then macheted an MP to
death in his surgery um we didn't need
the allei family to bring the worst of
the war zones of Somalia to the streets
of a British
constituency and so when you hear people
saying things insisting everybody
insisting all the time diversity is our
strength people know it's a lie people
know at the very least it's a half truth
and they get fed up with this stuff
being forced at them because all the
time they're noticing the downsides of
this and the downsides include by the
way I mean it never can never be said
enough the change of a society when the
movement uh is so fast and the numbers
are so large and the the type of
diversity is so difficult people notice
that for instance a high trust Society
of the kind that Britain used to be
becomes a very low trust society and Bel
poor and the and the belief in
institutions that used to characterize
Britain once all of those have
delegitimized themselves what are you
left with and then they come for the
holy places they come for your gods they
come for your temples and people are
meant to suck it up endlessly and I've
never been sure that they
would when a woman experienc is an
unplanned pregnancy she often feels
alone and Afraid too often her first
response is to seek out an abortion
because that's what left-leaning
institutions have conditioned her to do
but because of the generosity of
listeners like you that search may lead
her to a pre-born network Clinic where
by the grace of God she'll choose life
not just for her baby but for herself
pre-born offers God's love and
compassion to hurting women and provides
a free ultrasound to introduce them to
the life growing inside them this
combination helps women to choose life
and it's how pre-born saves 200 babies
every single day thanks to the Daily
wires partnership with pre-born we're
able to make our powerful documentary
choosing life available to all on daily
wire plus join us in thanking preborn
for bringing this important work out
from behind our pay wall and consider
making a donation today to support their
life-saving work you can sponsor one
ultrasound for just $28 if you have the
means you can sponsor pre-born entire
network for a day for $5,000 make a
donation today just dial pound 250 and
say the keyword baby that's pound 250
baby or go to pre-born
docomo that's preborn dcom
Jordan so well here's a here's an
obvious question too it's like well
here's a definition of war war is the
definition of irreconcilable
diversity right so diversity is our
strength it's like okay well Hamas and
Israel have diverse viewpoints and
they're not reconcilable so what do we
have a war so what's the story that
people are supposed to swallow it's that
although the world has been eternally
mild in interesing Conflict the war
between diverse
viewpoints if we import all that
diversity into the West magically we
wave a wand and all that diversity will
be be transformed into nothing but what
productive complex productive
cooperation in the absence by the way in
in the absence of any reconciling
framework because people like Trudeau
for example dispense with the idea of
any national identity whatsoever so
their presumption is something like the
natural state of people regardless of
the diversity of their opinions no
matter how diverse those opinions are
their natural state
is productive peace right so that's what
that's rouso is that is that what that
is is that an unbelievably naive rouso
and and is that the is that the
unwillingness is that a reflection of
the unwillingness to look at the aspect
of the human psyche that's gleefully
pursuing murder and Mayhem just to not
and just to never cast an eye in that
direction it's all sweetness and light
we're all little children and and if if
it that's what it looks like something
like that to me it'll be the strange
death of Europe will be something like
the death of the overprivileged at the
hands of their own naivity yes and you
can see it you can see it very closely I
mean as I say you know some ways I mean
it's a horrible thing to say thank
goodness the the killer in Southport
wasn't a migrant who had arrived
illegally into the UK a couple of weeks
earlier but you you you want the Peace
of your society and the possible
peacefulness of your Society for the
foreseeable future to be
reliant on that never happening
again well there's also reliable
evidence Douglas that the children of
immigrants are more likely to be
radicalized than the imants
themselves yeah yeah especially if
they're having a hard time integrating
right well I mean that's one of the most
common ones I've spoken with you about
this before but I mean the most common
one is you know a parent who flees a
particularly ugly and warlike Society
like say Somalia might
realize how lucky they are to arrive in
Canada they might one would hope that
they did will the child no the child's
expectation is that the place they've
born in is the normal Order of
Things um and then a load of other
people in
society you know
have tot Al forgotten what the state of
nature can be and has been for most of
human history and forget that actually
you
know you can bang on all you like about
disinformation or online and so on most
people are just looking at the situation
in front of them and then suddenly War
breaks out Hell Breaks Loose hopefully
it's contained but sometimes you see it
completely
uncontained that's certainly what I saw
in Israel the the the the
absolute epitome of unconstrained hate
that was Unleashed on Israel on the
7th by the way again so one other sorry
one other quick thing on that because
it's something that is so often in my
mind is onto communities by the way in
the south of Israel precisely
overpopulated by people who dreamed the
dream of peace with their neighbors and
believed for instance that you know by
driving Palestinian children from Gaza
to is isi hospitals every weekend they
were doing something in the cause of
Peace literally the woman who was doing
that who was in her 70s was burned alive
in her home on October the 7th so the
simple dream dreaming does not make it
so you may well be living in the most
wonderful dream but if if everyone else
is
not you better just hope you're not
woken up one day but the likelihood is
you will be and again what I've laid out
about the situation in Britain I was
some example of that a a
dream which maybe doesn't work maybe
you're woken up from okay so now I have
a better Insight too into your goal in
the speaking tour is like you're doing
see you're destined to be Cassandra so
that's always fun and you can tell if
you're Cassandra if you make prophecies
that you pray would not come true but
believe are likely oh my gosh yes you
can't can't believe how much you can't
believe how much that's been on my mind
my late friend Jonathan Sachs wrote
after a strange death of Europe came out
he wrote to me with a message from
uh with a line from
Ezekiel where he said uh he said um
what's the line he said and whether they
listen or fail to listen they should
know that a prophet stood among them
right right which I have children I got
in I really hope that he wasn't right
right well so I can see I see so so you
know what you're doing at the deepest
level with this new tour is I can see
why it's The Logical ex next step in
what you've been doing because you're
going to attempt to bring to public
attention all those things that people
would rather not look at right there's a
very old idea U and I elucidated it in
some detail in this new book I wrote
this we who wrestle with God that the
way you become immune to the poison of
the worst serpents is
by looking at the things you least want
to look at right and the goal of the
Prophet the role of the Prophet is to
identify what it is that people want to
look at least and to hold it up in front
of them in the hopes that that
will that that will make the people who
are viewing voluntarily stronger and
that that will set the social order
itself on a more appropriate path well
we certainly don't need we certainly
don't need people to be more dreamy and
weaker than they currently
are all right so maybe we
could maybe we could turn our attention
this direction you know in this
conversation we've done a lot of what
conservative types often do which is to
point to what's not good and to make a
case for its pathology and
danger now
that it's that proclivity let's say that
gives rise to the accusations from the
radical utopians of the reactionary
nature let's say of the right now like I
said earlier I don't know if right and
left I don't believe even that right and
left is the right way to conceptualize
what's going on in our society now but
again we'll leave that aside you know
that with this Alliance for responsible
citizenship for example that was started
last year in the UK um we've been trying
to outline something approximating a
positive Vision rather than merely
pointing to the the evils of the current
pathway and that outlining of a more
positive vision is something that
conservatives aren't particularly good
at and and I can understand that in a
sense you know because it's strange
times indeed where you have to point
repeatedly about what should be
self-evident in relationship to your
culture to remind people that it exists
you know and at the deepest level
you might say well the confusion about
what constitutes a woman is a cardinal
example of that it's like we're so lost
that we can't agree on the distinction
between the Sexes and so that's there
isn't a there isn't a form of loss
that's more profound than that as far as
I can figure
so so what do you see let's say
as what do you offer what do you console
yourself even let's say with in regards
to something approximating a what is it
that you're defending what is it that
the West let's say that you're whose
loss you're decrying what's what's at
the bottom of this that we're in such
radical danger of losing this is exactly
what Dawkins was pointing to however
implicitly when he described himself as
a cultural Christian like okay the West
is under assault well what is it that's
worth defending precisely and how you
conceptualize that and make it explicit
and so I mean when I go to Europe what
do I love about Europe the great beauty
of its artistic tradition that's
something that if you have any sense and
any aesthetic sense at all that drops
you to your knees to go to Italy to a
town like Florence and to go into a
random Church where there's a painting
that if sold would be worth $500 million
and to see it just hanging on the wall
unguarded with no one around well what
is that that's an indication of two
types of treasure one the art
itself two the fact that that art can
just sit there without having a hundred
men with machine guns around it making
sure that no Thug comes along and perins
it so that's the that's the Treasure of
that implicit trust that you described
so there's the beauty there's the Deep
sense of voluntary civilization that
characterizes Europe right there's a
remarkable history of valuation of the
individual all the way down the economic
framework that's particularly present in
the UK probably I it's there in the
Netherlands as well there's other
European countries that share that this
is not no civilization and no culture
and then so so what do you what is it
that we should be promoting and fighting
for as far as you're concerned the main
thing we is what you've just outlined we
should be
continuing you know it's it's
uh one of the one of the things is where
small C conservatism is that if if the
most radical figures on the left come up
with completely bizarre new manifestos
for what should happen like the complete
forgetting of biology or anything else
if they come up with that it's true that
others could resist that and say no we
have an alternative utopian vision and
so on I myself not a devotee of that
idea I'm a devot of the idea of
returning to the sane and the normal and
the and the pursuit of the beautiful and
the true now those are all things which
you don't have to invent a whole new
paradigm for we had it we have it in the
civilization you just described in the
institutions and the buildings and the
works of art and much more uh it's it's
what I I mean think of it this way what
if instead of everybody in our age who
has any Intelligence being told that
they should use it
to
um problematize
history and go over history focus on
things that were solved and try to
unsolveable
before they decided to become historic
figures themselves well that would be
something to to aim for What If instead
of seeing the the the the dozen or so
figures that stand over the the
Courtyard at Columbia University Dante
Aristotle and so on what if instead of
viewing them as simply dead white men
you viewed them as part of a tradition
that you can be a part of and add to and
add
to well that would be something
and uh I think it's a very good vision
for life and I think it did our forbears
well and if you if you have a pride in
that tradition which certainly in Europe
we have the right to not to eradicate
any Dark Times goodness knows but a
right to have that tradition and to want
to add to it and to want to preserve it
and keep it going that seems to me a
pretty good basis for life and
remembering things that everyone knew
until yesterday today and I wonder is it
is it pride or is it grateful aspiration
to you know cuz that word pride that's
that's to that's been a very thorny word
you might say and and increasingly so in
recent years it's like while the right
attitude to have towards the great
figures of the past I mean in this
Peterson Academy that we just launched
we have one of the members of the House
of Lords do a lecture series on seven
Great historical leaders of the past
I I'm kind of rubbing my hands together
about that course because it's not the
sort of course that you could get at a
university All Things Considered there
were no great men they were just
pursuing their own power Dynamic for
their own narrow self-serving purpose
which so so it's so Preposterous I mean
you just uh I was with some mutual
friends of ours recently on the island
of St Helena and although I tend to take
the British view about Napoleon which
was that he was a Proto
Tyrant you cannot sit in Napoleon's
study in Longwood house looking out at
the ocean and considering the battalions
of the British army that had to stay on
the island to keep the emperor inside
and the fleet of British boats that had
to sit in the harbor facing inwards to
make sure the emperor didn't escape to
just think wow this was a world
historical Force this man um you know
you know you you able to take the the
bad with the good sometimes and uh you
know but but but goodness me I mean the
idea there were no great men in history
or that it's all just sort of relative
is so it's so Preposterous and you don't
have to go to a sort of carile and great
man Theory but by the way that's a much
better Theory uh of History than
anything that's being pushed on us at
the moment I mean just very I don't want
to ramble but I mean there's a case I I
was saying actually I did a an
alternative commencement speech for some
of the students at Colombia the other
month because they weren't allowed a
commencement ceremony because of the
protesters at their University and of
course so so a nice group of students
and their families asked if I would
would speak and I did and I did as as as
much as I could and but one of the
things you know I I uh I I said you know
as well as talking about the famous
great figures of the past I gave the
example of there's a there's a
16-year-old who who who Andrew Roberts
mentions in his history of World War II
the storm of war the 16-year-old who
lied about his age to get into the
British Navy as a Submariner in 1940 or
so um is on uh is is on one of the
summaries that sinks a German ubo they
get the they get the crew off the boat
and and it's sinking but this
16-year-old and a couple of the others
get into this German ubo as it's sinking
find among other things one of the
encryption devices which is sent back to
Bletchley Park and which allows the
Allies to crack the Enigma code that
16-year-old ended up being as it as it
happened he was chucked out of the Navy
because he lied about his age but that
16-year-old boy called Tommy changed the
course of human history for the good now
tell me tell me it wouldn't be better as
a society instead of telling people to
wallow in grievance and anger and
bitterness to say you know it actually
doesn't matter where you come from if
you have it in you you could be a world
historical figure as well and improve
things demonstrably for the better with
your life I suppose one of the
conclusions that you could draw what
would be that the provision of
ideologies that claim the contrary are
generated for no other reason than to
alleviate the responsibility for doing
so from the from the shoulders to lift
the burden of responsibility for doing
so from the shoulders of the authors of
those ideologies everything is pointless
all morality is relative no one's life
has any true significance I can do
whatever the hell I want with whoever
the hell I want to with no consequences
whatsoever because in the final analysis
does it really matter it's like well
does it really matter well the reason I
concluded eventually that it did really
matter was because that's the pathway to
hell and it looks to me like he even if
heaven doesn't exist hell matters and
you'll you'll figure that out when you
get there and it sounds to me like what
you're doing with your new tour is
bringing what an expanded vision of the
hell that awaits us if we don't walk a
little bit more carefully than we have
been and the heroism that can await you
too that's I I I will get into this more
but I mean that is one of the things
that I find extraordinary from my past
year I've seen it before but wow until
you see what people are able to do under
unbelievable circumstances and to risk
their lives and sometimes to give their
lives uh for a common good for a purpose
for a
cause sacrificially almost
self-sacrificial I'm thinking of people
who drove right into the fire on the 7th
and were citizens and who stood up for
their neighbor and saved a lot of people
and people people often think heroism is
you know sort of a thing from the past
no it isn't no it isn't
it's something that if if the if the
time emerges you would hope you'll be
able to raise yourself to but I've seen
many people who did well that's the
purpose of education is to prepare
yourself for precisely that I mean you
saw when you came on tour with me you
saw the lights go on in the crowd let's
say when a case was being made for the
relationship between truth and
responsibility and adventure and meaning
it's like this this call to take your
place at the seat at the feet of the
greats let's say that's not some cliche
and it's so interesting to watch
people's response to the representation
of that pathway because so many people
are so seriously demoralized it's like
no you know you
could G your loin so to speak and become
something and you have a cardinal role
to play and you'd find the meaning of
your life in doing that and and that
meaning is more real than anything else
because it actually is
the medication that you can take that
doesn't precisely make you immune to
pain but it makes you able to accept it
without becoming bitter and murderous
and that's not nothing well I it has to
be that there is an answer to
demoralization and that is something
like remoralization of people a a
reminder of people uh to rise to their
better instincts to rise of their to
their better pasts to to Aspire to their
better forbears that's all possible you
know there's no reason reason that the
the radicals on any side should have to
drag us down into this pit absolutely no
reason and we should be able
collectively to cut whatever rope it is
that they are trying to link us to and
pull us down on and saying no you can go
that way you're not taking me with you
yeah you're not taking me or anybody I
can communicate with effectively with
you we've got 12,000 students signed up
already to Peters that's fantastic
fantastic so you know that's that's a
good it's a good index of The Hunger
that people have for an education that
has the goal that you just described
which is to remind people not only of
where they could go if they weren't
awake but also of who they could be if
they decided to be who they could be
Absolut I I was with one of my fellow
centanin the other week with Andrew doy
who had just done the Shakespeare series
for you I said what what a fantastic
thing to have to have Andrew Doyle
teaching Shakespeare and I said because
and I I said to him you know one of the
funny things these days is that if you
wanted to get a university Grant to
study Shakespeare you'd only be able to
get one if you were promising to queer
Shakespeare or problematize him or look
at him through the colonial lens if you
just wanted to study the tragedies or
the comedies it would be extremely hard
to get a gr but as as a friend of ours
pointed out I like to reiterate you know
the stupid thing about that is the
idea it's the idea that it's our job to
judge
Shakespeare um whereas maybe maybe
Shakespeare is um is able to judge us
and maybe maybe if you read Shakespeare
well and watch it well and listen to it
well and think about it well you'll
realize that sometimes Shakespeare
judges us and finds US wanting and uh
you know maybe maybe that maybe that's
just possible that one of the reasons
why we keep on wanting to Chuck out
great figures from the past is because
like anything beautiful it makes us
nervous any ideal is a judge yeah
exactly right right well and that's
that's a very interesting thing to
contemplate psychologically because the
conundrum there is well that means the
higher ideal the more severe the
Judgment so that's a problem and that's
a non-trivial problem like I'm not
trying to make light of that but there's
a there's a correlat to that is that
well every ideal is a goal and there's
no hope without a goal so you can
sacrifice the ideal to avoid the
judgment but then you don't have a goal
and if you have no if you don't have a
goal you have no joy you have no
enthusiasm you have no hope and then
your life truly is the kind of bitter
misery this is what happens to Cain
right when he kills Abel he kills his
ideal and the first thing he says to God
is my punishment is greater than I can
bear it's like well why well you've just
killed you just killed that which you
most wanted to be and so what do you do
after you've done that well well there's
no place to go there's no place you can
run to there's no place you can avoid
your fate and the universities have
become places that are dedicated
towards the demolition of the very ideal
that gave rise to them and obviously
that can't stand for long yeah no and
that's why I mean the great answer I I
said at the end of the war in the West
the great answer to all of this and it
it also uh comes back to what you were
saying about Pride I I prefer to use the
gratitude and to and to say that that
really the appropriate answer to much of
the am miseration and much more is to
turn it around and instead of resentment
feel gratitude and that's no that's not
impossible because millions and millions
of people across the world have have
waged that war within themselves and won
well I think you know part of what you
experience when you go into a great
Cathedral if you have any sense is
I wouldn't say it's a sense of your own
littleness because that's not right but
it might be something like a sense of
your own littleness in POS in
relationship to the wealth of
possibility that's pointed at by these
remarkable architectural forms it's like
look what human beings can do are you
doing that are you doing that probably
not and there's a reason why people are
demoralized about that because there's
there must be some reason that we
haven't been building things like uh the
great Basilica at Sand Deni in recent
years and there's a reason that those
places increasingly look like lost
tombstones in a ragged Urban you know
dystopia and uh yes I that's why all of
these things point to the same direction
uh the way down and the way up and the
way down we know and we've all been able
to study and we've all been able to see
quite enough of uh the way outputs
there's a
task all right sir well I think we'll
close up I I always get the sense when
I'm talking to you that our conversation
has just begun but well we'll be able to
continue it as we have over several
years now and um for those of you
watching and listening Douglas came on
my tour last September for a number of
of of events and that was very uh useful
and hopefully inspiring certainly was
for me and hopefully it was for the
audience that certainly seemed to be the
case and with any luck we'll be able to
continue that in the future um good luck
with your speaking to her I hope that I
can come and see you at one of those
events you said where where do people
look so if they go to Live Nation uh to
the website of Live Nation and uh type
in my name and we start on September the
8th at Fort Lauderdale although that's
sold out and we go through Miami Beach
Washington DC Los Angeles New York and
then Denver uh on October the 13th so
it's a little over a month yeah when are
you in
La I am in LA on
the September the 23rd at the uh the
Wilton in La maybe we'll come out to LA
and see you that would be
fun yeah yeah okay so all right well for
everybody watching and listening most of
you know that we'll continue this
conversation for another half an hour
behind the daily wire pay wall and I
think what I'll do is with Douglas is
focus a little bit more on the situation
in Israel and what he learned and to
delve into some of the geopolitical
realities behind that uh um especially
with regards to the what would you this
say the conspiratorial
involvement of players like Iran in
fostering this bloody hellacious mess
and so if you are inclined to join us
for that that would be much appreciated
otherwise
Mr Murray it's always a
pleasure a perverse pleasure in talking
to you um and uh well good luck with
your tour um you said you Fort
Lauderdale is already sold out what size
venues are you are you um addressing
pretty big ones um uh the uh I think
we're now filling the Filmore in Miami
Beach for the 10th of September so yeah
they're nice siiz theaters but still
tickets for some so come along well so
so that's heartening you know the fact
it's pretty strange you know if you
think about it that you can make a live
event out of what you're doing showing
people this horror and atrocity and
making an intellectual case and that
there is enough public appetite for that
to make it not only event but an event
but a mass event that's in some ways
unprecedented because you're doing what
live journalism that's that's a that's
not a that's not something that we've
seen before I it might also have to do
with the fact that as the online World
becomes more and more pathological and
more and more difficult to trust the
value of these in-person events is going
to increase proportionately absolutely
it's a among other things it's a
community of people finding each other
as well finding other people concerned
about the same
things yes yes yes and you're actually
there to watch you can evaluate deeply
and so that's an interesting unexpected
consequence of the virtualization of the
world right okay and then I guess what
I'll close with apart from uh an
invitation to everyone once again to
join us on the daily wire side is uh
we'd love to have you lecture for
Peterson Academy on love that yeah I we
discussed this I'm definitely Keen to do
that y y yeah well we could make a we
could we could make we could make a
great course out of that and that's our
goal so all right we'll talk about that
further and to everyone watching and
listening thank you very much the film
crew up here in my Cottage in Northern
Ontario appreciate the fact that you
guys said set this up and make it
straightforward and also the to the
Daily we for facilitating this and
Douglas well on to the next interview
and uh it was a pleasure talking to you
thank you for sharing what you've seen
and been thinking about with everybody
watching and listening thank you Jordan
[Music]